---
layout: single
title:  "Creating environment variables in Python"
date:   2023-02-15 15:38:07 +0100
categories: python env environment variables python-dotenv
permalink: "/:categories:title"
toc: true
toc_label: "My Table of Contents"
toc_sticky: true
---

# Introduction
Here is a step-by-step guide to create a Python application, including its environment variables. It is particularly usefull when we need to keep sensitive information secure and separatly from the code. For instance, we develop applications whose source code is stored in git repositories. We do not wish to share some sensitive information contained in the source code.

A number of Python libraries are available that can assist with managing environment variables in Python. Here are some of them:
- python-config,
- environs,
- dynaconf,
- configobj,
- decouple.

Let me share with you the most commonly used Python library, which is ```python-dotenv```.

# Installing the library
The first step is installing the library in our environment:
```python
pip install python-dotenv
```

# Creating .env file
The second step we need to do is to create a ```.env``` file in the ***root*** directory of the project. This will let us configure the environment variables. The ```.env``` file must be similar to the ```bash``` syntax. Here is an example of this file:

```bash
USER = 'mbartcus'
PASW = 'THIS_is_a_SECRET'
MAIL = ${USER}@gmail.com
```

Observe for example that here if we use a variable in a value, this variable is surrounded by { } brackets.

To push your code with git, make sure your ```.env``` file is added to the ```.gitignore```file.

# Creating python application
And finally, we can load our environment variable in python application.

```python
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv # import the package

load_dotenv()  # take environment variables from .env.

usr=os.environ.get("USER")
psw=os.environ.get("PASW")
mail=os.environ.get("MAIL")
```

Another way to load the environment variables is by using the ```dotenv_values``` function. This function is very similar to the ```load_dotenv```function. However, for this case a dictionary of key:values is created. Now, given the code:

```python
from dotenv import dotenv_values

config = dotenv_values(".env") # creates a dictionary
```

```config``` would be 

```python
{'USER':'mbartcus', 'PASW':'THIS_is_a_SECRET', 'MAIL':'mbartcus@gmail.com'}
```
